---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Rewind 2018 + Resolutions 2019"
excerpt: "I look at my past and reflect what went right and wrong in 2018 and lay out my resolutions for 2019."
date: 2019-01-01 12:52:00 +0530
mathjax: true
---


<style>
p {
  text-align: justify;
}

</style>



I look at my past and reflect what went right and wrong in 2018. Overall I am not pleased and will say 2018 wasn't a good year for me at all though being positive, I hope that 2019 will be a much much better year for I have gone through a harsh, unforgiving 2018. 

**Table of Contents**


---

{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

---


### January

The year started with a regret, deceit and unforgiveness. My friends who were ready to start a startup with me backed out. I don't have much to say.

**Lesson I learnt**: Never trust anyone and definitely don't build your future on another people's visions. My entrepreneurial skills slowly died but I hope in the future I'll start a company with people who share my vision. 

### February, March and April

Attendance. IIIT Bhubaneswar is very harsh for attendance. I didn't get any for being busy in work that made the college better.

Nevertheless, IIIT Bhubaneswar is a good place, the students are absolute freaking fantastic and I might not show my love to it but deep down, I think I love it.

**Lesson I learnt**: Don't mess with Indian Academic Staff, Administration, etc. They don't live by logic and will create various rules to make you suffer. Just go with them, support them and you'll be fine. Be benevolent like a cow. Don't fight, it's no use to waste your energy.

You'll smile wide but behind those teeth only you know how much of favourisms and sweet talk exists in India.

### May, June and July

Family grieved over the sad news of oral cancer diagnosis of my Uncle. It had spread near a lymph node due to lack of awareness, not making healthly lifestyle a priority and lot's of paan (betel leaves and tobacco), tobacco packets and long motorcycle journeys in Odisha's summer months ( UV index is average, 10. Note, it's not highest, it's the *average*. )

Cancer, brilliantly explained and pointed out by Siddhartha Mukherjee in his seminal work, *The Emperor of Maladies*, an emperor. 

It left the family burdened financially, emotionally and also spiritually. I plan to write a touching memoir for him later next month so more details and poerty on that post. 

**Lesson I learnt**: Exercise. Eat good. Be aware. Get screened early. Don't stress yourself, it's going to be alright. Don't fear, run away from cancer, from death rather embrace it and live a life filled with gratitude, happiness and have fun.

### August, September and October

I joined IIT Bhubaneswar to work on a Odisha Government Project which was making an AR Exhibition for the Make In Odisha Enclave in November. I can't share the ideas and projects as I don't know if I'm allowed to. 

Frankly, I didn't like the culture and especially was troubled by the integrity and weak vision of PI. I don't want rant and criticize about him or anything more for this year I plan to reduce this attitude and be rather grateful and wish good for the future.

**Lesson I learnt:** Sometimes, people, places and work aren't what you thought of, they will be overhyped, filled with people obsessed with petty issues and the whole administration bogged down for the inefficient work by the administration. 

Try to make the place that's giving you hell, a workaround heaven for you. Cheap thrills. Just finish your time or project, get your cash and walk out. Don't stay *if it's no fun.*

### November

I shifted to Tata Ariana, my new flat in Bhubaneswar. It's a nice, sweet place. I love the area and the people around me. Living alone for a while taught me many things that I believe, everyone should learn. 

* Cooking simple food with healthy, fresh ingredient. 
* Cleaning, sweeping and washing clothes for a healthy environment.
* Living alone and not being afraid, survival skills, emergency plans. 

It's a great experience and I urge you all to slowly learn them. 

**Lesson I learnt:** Living independent gives you freedom and slowly works on your discipline. You might see these as trivial and obvious but unless you start them you'll feel how enriching they are in your life. 

I made new friends, signed a MoU with my neighbours (!) and started writing a novel.

### December

Insults. Criticisms.

Pain. Despise. Dislike.

Regret. Forgiveness. Empathy.

That's December for me. I insulted and criticized the Tata Ariana Office Staff for their inefficient work to fix my broken house windows, leaking tap and unleveled tiles in the bathroom. 

It didn't work. I regretted my attitude, my behavior. 

**Lesson I learnt:** Never criticize, insult or make fun of someone. It hurts. You don't need to crack jokes, make puns or roast someone to be a fun, "cool" person. You just need to be there to talk to them. 

It's never late to change. I changed. You can too.

---

The new year celebrations were a blast here on Ariana, we had a nice buffet with some brilliant starters (looking at you paneer kebabs!), music and dance shows and most importantly chatting and talking with newly made and old friends. 

I sent emails to few of my friends and mentors (I am not in contact with them for months) wishing them a great year ahead. Email is still the way if done right, isn't it? 

---

**TL, DR;** + few extra small but significant points for the new year! 

Dotted list for extra pleasure: 

* Never trust anyone and definitely don't build your future on another people's visions.

* Don't mess with Indian Academic Staff, Administration, etc.

* Exercise. Eat good. Be aware. Get screened early. Don't stress yourself, it's going to be alright. Don't fear, run away from cancer, from death rather embrace it and live a life filled with gratitude, happiness and have fun.

* Try to make the place that's giving you hell, a workaround heaven for you. Cheap thrills. Just finish your time or project, get your cash and walk out. Don't stay *if it's no fun.*

* Living independent gives you freedom and slowly works on your discipline. 

* Never criticize, insult or make fun of someone. It hurts. You don't need to crack jokes, make puns or roast someone to be a fun, "cool" person. You just need to be there to talk to them. 

* Video game addiction is bad, it's unproductive. Leave it. I deleted my account. 

* Stay in a schedule. 

* Drink a lot of water, as usual.

* Sleep in multiples of 90 mins.

* Delete all social media from your phone. 

* Stay in contact with family, friends and mentors. We human are social need them. I have learnt this rather in a hard way.

* Know your weakness. Know what you can't do. Success starts when you say accept your abilities, how you look and your inner self. 

* Keep track of your day, preferable on Google Sheets.

* After work, get yourself some downtime, reward yourself.


---

### Best of 2018.

I enjoyed this year a few video games such as Factorio, Opus Magnum, INSIDE, Undertale and Dead Cells. On iOS, I loved GrimValor, ELOH and The Room: Old Sins.

Movies I loved were [Searching](https://letterboxd.com/sudoankit/film/searching-2018/), [Atomic Blonde](https://letterboxd.com/sudoankit/film/atomic-blonde/), Venom, Avengers Infinity War, [Isle of Dogs](https://letterboxd.com/sudoankit/film/isle-of-dogs-2018/), [Coco](https://letterboxd.com/sudoankit/film/coco-2017/) and [Dunkirk](https://letterboxd.com/sudoankit/film/dunkirk-2017/).

My favorite books were [When Breath Becomes Air](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25899336-when-breath-becomes-air), [What If?: Serious Scientific Answers to Absurd Hypothetical Questions](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21413662-what-if), [Origin (Robert Langdon, #5)](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32283133-origin) and Artemis by Andy Weir, currently reading still but it's good, ;)

The software (iOS) I used and use nearly everyday are [Clear Todos](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/clear-todos/id493136154?mt=8), [Swipes Personal](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/swipes-to-do-task-list-plan-achieve-goals/id657882159?mt=8), [Forest App](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/forest-stay-focused/id866450515?mt=8), [Waterminder](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/waterminder/id653031147?mt=8), iAWriter, Streaks, PhonePe and Google Pay, 5coins, Heart Rate Pro , Google Sheets, Daygram, Vocabulary.com, Truecaller, Dropbox, Google Drive, Apple Music (+ all default iOS apps) and Anki Mobile (costly purchase but worth it!)

For Mac, Little Snitch, Daisy Disk, SelfControl, Unsplash Wallpapers and Anki. 

The ones that stood out to me are Typora ( I wrote this with it ), Sleep Cycle, Brilliant.org, Desmos, Oak Meditation and Pocket Yoga.

---

### Top achievements of mine according to me. 🎖, 😇

1. Making my mind accept and not running away from pain, death and trouble. Face it.
2. Being independent.
3. Writing my purpose of my life, my interest and pursuit in science. 
4. Buying my own domain, setting up my website.
5. Making new friends.

---

### Top failures and regrets of mine according to me. ❌, 🤮

1. Running away from pain, death of close ones by playing video games, wasting time.
2. Trusting friends and building dreams which depended on them.
2. Criticizing and insulting people.
3. Working in a overhyped place which didn't have any vision and curbed my freedom to imagine and develop.
4. Wasting too much time on Reddit.
5. Not sleeping, eating on schedule and not exercising enough.
6. Not being focused enough.
7. Not practicing enough math and coding.

---

$$n ( \texttt{Regrets and Failures} ) > n ( \texttt{Achievements} )$$

$$\implies 2018 \texttt{ wasn't optimal.} $$

---

## Resolutions 2019

I'll go super simple this time and write which I can actually do!

- Never criticize, insult or make fun of someone. 
- Stay on a schedule, wake up early.
- Track my hourly time.
- Write down the stuff you did each day on a journal and mark which were constructive and destructive.
- Read 12 books.
- Exercise at least 30 mins day. Anything, basketball, swimming or hitting the gym!
- Drink less caffeine more water, juice and eat fibre.
- Don't waste time on video games. 
- Unsubscribe from unproductive YouTube channels and delete every messaging app in the phone. 
- Learn finances and try saving money.
- Code at least 5 hours every week.
- Practice math at least 7 hours every week.
- Implement 4 research papers.
- Read 24 research papers.
- Write at least 1000 words every week. Progress my book.
- Help parents, listen and be with them. 
- Fill everyday with gratitude, well being and stay super positive.
- Ignore nonsense. 
- [maybe] Subscribe to farnam street and nautilus magazine.
- [maybe] Socialize more, meet new people.



>  **I didn’t come this far to only come this far. I have only come this far to push harder. Proud but not satisfied.** 



Wish you all a great productive, healthy and wonderful year ahead. Godspeed.

Ankit.

