---
layout: post
comments: false;
title: "FB22 Labs"
excerpt: "....in which I write about my new AI research company."
date: 2019-02-14 13:00:00 +0530
mathjax: true
---



I started a new startup called [**FB22 Labs**](https://www.fb22labs.xyz) 🧪, the name comes from my house/apartment at NIT Kozhikode which, you guessed, is named FB22.

What is it about you would ask? 

**"AI Research and Great Software."**

## Why?

I quit my job and the subsequent offer for pursuing a Masters Degree at IIT Bhubaneswar because I wasn't free. I joined to *learn* about research, about theory, about the pressure in academia but I got pretty much the opposite. I found myself in muddy waters unclear about my future, my questions left unanswered and my thoughts corrupting in the cesspool I was in.

It is natural that you don't continue working and pushing yourself if **you don't love** what you're doing. I felt so and I left. 

Initially it was quite scary for I didn't had given any thought about what should I do but once I sat, cleared my mind and let my heart speak I realized that I was overlooking a crucial point. 

I had internet. I had books. I had my parents. I had no financial problems. 

All I need was to work for it, very hard. I could learn and research everything myself and as it wouldn't have any deadlines to it nor any grant expiration dates, I could go in my own pace, slowly crunching my work, closer to my goal day by day. 

Independency allowed me to venture forth topics I wanted to explore but I couldn't in my past. **Neuroscience, numerical analysis and optimization.**

I would do research, **research I loved.**

## What?

FB22 Labs is for now, an **open sourced community driven experimental design and research organization** ( for now, I'm the only person to decide everything on the final products and philosophy) **to create products and explore topics in deep and reinforcement learning, computer vision/graphics and applied math for making intelligent products for the billions.**

I wish to make it the best in AI research and great software. I'm know I can't compete with the multinational giants in software and technology but I am hopeful to be the best in a niche sector. I don't want to focus in many things nor research the trending topics of the world. 

I wish to do simple stuff. 

**Quality Research. Write great software.**

#### <u>AI Research</u>

I will start small. 

Slowly **start implementing papers** which I feel would help me in my long run and maybe will serve as tutorial repositories for student's or as refreshers for the experienced. 

I will focus on **creating quality expositions explaining the fundamentals** and gradually going deeper into the theory. I believe a solid capture of fundamentals is the key to great, quality research. 

This is it for now.

#### <u>Great Software</u>

Quality software lies in **understanding of the language and paradigms of maintainable code base, wrapped in beautiful aesthetic but minimal UI and interaction design.** I spend a lot of time on UI design to make something just look good to the eyes. 

It should be natural. Anything, be it a book, a software or a pamphlet. It should good always. Feel nice.

Software is good if it works well, it's great if it solves your problem as many will too have the <u>same</u> problem. 

For now, I won't write more about this.

---

My life is in an amazing state right now, I plan to fully utilize it to focus on three aspects which I believe are vital for success. 

**Health. Learning. Smart Work.**

It's so simple. Just don't overthink. Work on the simple stuff first. 

---

Raising a glass or two for FB22 Labs, <br>
**Ankit.**







